
# meditai

A simple application that autogenerates personalized guided meditations.

The script is genererated by the OpenAI API given my meditation prompt.
The audio is generated by Azure's Text-to-Speech API.


## Background

Meditation can help to approach challenging topics. I often struggle to contemplate difficult ideas or stubborn patterns of thought: My mind is quick to get distracted or to interrupt itself with opposing opinions. I have found that guided meditations can help me here: It allows me to drop inherent resistance, be more receiptive to change and make it easier for me to resist distractions. 

Existing meditation apps provide very general support. Aside from core meditation practices (e.g. mindfulness or gratitude meditations), usual meditation apps sometimes offer sessions that focus on specifc thoughts, feelings, topics or ideas. But, naturally, these are very general and cannot be specific to the meditators personal concerns or very specific themes that they wish to address.

Generative AI, however, can. ChatGPT is able to generate decent meditation scripts: they are gentle, visual and incorporate specific prompts quite well. 

Text-to-speech technology makes the scripts come to life: Azure's TTS API provides a very convincing quality of speech with pleasant tones of voice e.g. "whispering". 

Background sounds, appropriate rate of speech and pauses round off the meditation experience. 

## Features

Current features
- Meditations of different duration
- Background music

Feature ideas
- User can rate meditation experience
- User can locally store & re-use scripts or audio
- Prompts, scripts and rating are logged together to understand what works wee
